README.md, before:

# NotionVoxBot

A Telegram bot that receives voice messages, logs their details, and will eventually transcribe them and send to Notion.

## Features

- 🎤 Receives voice messages from Telegram
- 📊 Logs comprehensive voice message details
- 💾 Downloads and stores voice files locally
- 📝 Future: Voice transcription and Notion integration

## Setup

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

1. Copy the example environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. Edit `.env` and add your Telegram bot token:
   ```
   TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=your_actual_bot_token_here
   ```

### 3. Run the Bot

```bash
python bot.py
```

## Bot Commands

- `/start` - Welcome message and introduction
- `/help` - Show available commands and usage instructions

## What the Bot Logs

When you send a voice message, the bot logs:

- User information (ID, name, username)
- Voice message metadata (duration, file size, MIME type)
- File IDs (both regular and unique)
- Timestamp of message
- Local file path where voice is saved

## File Structure

```
notionvoxbot/
├── bot.py              # Main bot application
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
├── .env.example        # Environment variables template
├── .env               # Your actual environment variables (not in git)
├── .gitignore         # Git ignore rules
├── downloads/         # Directory for downloaded voice files
└── README.md          # This file
```

## Future Enhancements

- 🎯 Voice transcription using OpenAI Whisper or similar
- 📔 Integration with Notion API
- 🔄 Database storage for voice message metadata
- 🎛️ Configuration options for different users
- 🚀 Deployment options (Docker, cloud platforms)

## Development

The bot uses the `python-telegram-bot` library version 20.x with async/await support.

Voice files are saved in OGG format as provided by Telegram's API.

Commit message:

🚀 feat: Add complete AWS Lambda deployment infrastructure
**What changed**

- Added Terraform configuration for AWS Lambda infrastructure (terraform/main.tf)
- Created Lambda-optimized handler for webhook-based deployment (lambda_handler.py)
- Implemented GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline (.github/workflows/deploy.yml)
- Added deployment automation script with colored output (deploy.sh)
- Enhanced bot code with GPT-4o-mini for AI title generation (bot.py)
- Updated requirements with Notion client and OpenAI dependencies (requirements.txt)
- Added comprehensive AWS deployment documentation (README_AWS.md)
- Updated environment template with Notion credentials (.env.example)
- Enhanced main README with current transcription features (README.md)

**Why it changed**

- Enable serverless deployment to AWS Lambda for 24/7 operation without server management
- Provide automated CI/CD pipeline for seamless deployments via GitHub Actions
- Add infrastructure as code approach for reproducible and version-controlled deployments
- Support webhook-based Telegram integration for improved scalability and reliability
- Upgrade from GPT-3.5 to GPT-4o-mini for better and cheaper AI title generation
- Complete Notion integration with smart AI-generated titles for voice memos

README.md, after:

# NotionVoxBot

A Telegram bot that receives voice messages, logs their details, and will eventually transcribe them and send to Notion.

## Features

- 🎤 Receives voice messages from Telegram
- 📊 Logs comprehensive voice message details
- 💾 Downloads and stores voice files locally
- 🤖 **Transcribes voice messages using OpenAI Whisper API**
- 🔄 Automatically converts OGA to MP3 format
- 📝 Future: Notion integration for saving transcripts

## Setup

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

1. Copy the example environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. Edit `.env` and add your API tokens:
   ```
   TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=your_actual_bot_token_here
   OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key_here
   ```

### 3. Run the Bot

```bash
python bot.py
```

## Bot Commands

- `/start` - Welcome message and introduction
- `/help` - Show available commands and usage instructions

## What the Bot Does

When you send a voice message, the bot:

1. **Downloads** the voice file to the `downloads/` directory
2. **Logs** comprehensive details to the console:
   - User information (ID, name, username)
   - Voice message metadata (duration, file size, MIME type)
   - File IDs (both regular and unique)
   - Timestamp of message
   - Local file path where voice is saved
3. **Converts** OGA audio to MP3 format for Whisper compatibility
4. **Transcribes** the audio using OpenAI Whisper API
5. **Sends** the transcript back to you in Telegram

## File Structure

```
notionvoxbot/
├── bot.py              # Main bot application
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
├── .env.example        # Environment variables template
├── .env               # Your actual environment variables (not in git)
├── .gitignore         # Git ignore rules
├── downloads/         # Directory for downloaded voice files
└── README.md          # This file
```

## Future Enhancements

- 📔 Integration with Notion API
- 🔄 Database storage for voice message metadata
- 🎛️ Configuration options for different users
- 🚀 Deployment options (Docker, cloud platforms)
- 🌍 Multi-language transcription support

## Development

The bot uses the `python-telegram-bot` library version 20.x with async/await support.

Voice files are saved in OGG format as provided by Telegram's API.
